Towards 11.1 (#637)
PostgREST/postgrest-docs: docs/references/connection_pool.rst

Connection Pool
===============

A connection pool is a cache of reusable database connections. It allows serving many HTTP requests using few database connections. Every request to an :doc:`API resource <api>` borrows a connection from the pool to start a :doc:`transaction <transactions>`.

Minimizing connections it’s paramount to performance. Each PostgreSQL connection creates a process, having too many can exhaust available resources.

.. _pool_growth_limit:
.. _dyn_conn_pool:

Dynamic Connection Pool
-----------------------

> To conserve system resources, PostgREST uses a dynamic connection pool.  This enables the number of connections in the pool to increase and decrease depending on request traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To conserve system resources, PostgREST uses a dynamic connection pool. This enables the number of connections in the pool to increase and decrease depending on request traffic.
```

> - If all the connections are being used, a new connection is added. The pool can grow until it reaches the :ref:`db-pool` size. Note it’s pointless to set this higher than the ``max_connections`` setting in your database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If all the connections are being used, a new connection is added. The pool can grow until it reaches the :ref:`db-pool` size. Note that it’s pointless to set this higher than the ``max_connections`` setting in your database.
```

- If a connection is unused for a period of time(determined by :ref:`db-pool-max-idletime`, 30 seconds by default), it will be released.

Connection lifetime
-------------------

Long-lived PostgreSQL connections can consume considerable memory(see `here <https://www.postgresql.org/message-id/CAFj8pRCQN2B2vrVMH1-bd-8xtzjytWR%2BAjZ%2BMCj9J2wPxKPa9Q%40mail.gmail.com>`_ for more details).
Under a busy system, the :ref:`db-pool-max-idletime` won't be reached and the connection pool can have many long-lived connections.

To avoid this problem and save resources, a connection max lifetime(determined by :ref:`db-pool-max-lifetime`, 30 minutes by default) is enforced.

> After the max lifetime is reached, connections from the pool will be released and news ones will be created. This doesn't affect running requests, only unused connections will be released.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the max lifetime is reached, connections from the pool will be released and new ones will be created. This doesn't affect running requests, only unused connections will be released.
```

   "hint":null,
   "message":"Timed out acquiring connection from connection pool."}

.. important::

  Getting this error message is an indicator of a performance issue. To solve it, you can:

  - Reduce your queries execution time.

    - Check the request :ref:`explain_plan` to tune your query, this usually means adding indexes.

  - Reduce the amount of requests.

    - Reduce write requests. Do :ref:`bulk_insert` (or :ref:`upsert`) instead of inserting rows one by one.
    - Reduce read requests. Use :ref:`resource_embedding`. Combine unrelated data into a single request using custom database views or functions.
    - Use :ref:`s_procs` for combining read and write logic into a single request.

  - Increase the :ref:`db-pool` size.

    - Not a panacea since connections can't grow infinitely. Try the previous recommendations before this.

.. _automatic_recovery:

Automatic Recovery
------------------

The server will retry reconnecting to the database if connection loss happens.

> - It will retry forever with exponential backoff. 32 seconds being the maximum backoff time between retries. Each of these attempts are :ref:`logged <pgrst_logging>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It will retry forever with exponential backoff, with a maximum backoff time of 32 seconds between retries. Each of these attempts are :ref:`logged <pgrst_logging>`.
```

I think this is more direct.

Author: The hemingway app tells me this form is harder to read

![Screenshot from 2023-06-07 19-23-06](https://github.com/PostgREST/postgrest-docs/assets/1829294/18997b7a-10ba-449e-aaeb-47a3d290874d)

Reviewer: Ah, I see. The problem is that a cardinal number shouldn't start a sentence, `32` should be `Thirty-two seconds...` in this case, I think.

Author: Ah ok. I will go with your suggestion then. Yellow is kinda fine in hemingwayapp.
